I wanna talk a little bit more
what you can expect to learn,
like more specifically.
So you can kinda set some expectations.
You could jump around between section
to section and that would be okay.
There is a little bit that does
some concepts built on others.
So if you try and invest to more advanced
concepts without taking the more beginner
ones, you might be confused.
So I did put it in an order for a reason.
But yeah, today I wanna introduce you
to what is Linux, so you can feel more
comfortable with working at a different
operating system, if you're not already.
What Linux can solve for you,
what the command line is,
how to navigate around the command line,
and how to accomplish some basic tasks and
kind of customize it a little bit.
So I hope you come out on the other side
a little bit more excited about Linux than
you entered.
So I'm gonna give you a bit of
a history lesson on why Linux exists,
why it's out there.
I think it's just useful for
people to know why it was created and
where it came from.
So Linux is a Unix based operating system.
That means it derives heavenly inspiration
from Unix without actually being Unix.
I'm sure you've heard those terms,
Linux and Unix.
And these days, we tend to use
them almost interchangeably, but
they are actually very different concepts.
Unix was an operating system
invented at Bell Labs in the 70s.
Bell Labs, which is eventually,
it was broken up and
AT&T was one of those companies.
So you can relatively think of it as
AT&T in the 70s, built this operating
system called Unix and
everyone liked and it was very popular.
But you had to pay to use Unix and
that kind of rubbed a lot
of people the wrong way.
But a big part of what made Unix Unix
is they have the Unix philosophy,
which actually became very popular.
And whether or not you know you're likely
still writing code in some regards
according to the Unix philosophy.
So yeah,
that influence is still felt today.
So I just wanted to highlight
to you what those are.
It kind of helps you understand why
the tools are the way that they are.
So the Unix philosophy is make
each program do one thing well.
If you're gonna make it do more things,
you're better off creating a new program
rather than modifying an old program.
That way you kinda have these old
programs that stay stable and
you can make new fresh things without the
burden of trying to maintain old patterns.
Expect the output of every program to
be an input to another program and
that's kinda where we got
the ideas of streams and pipes.
And we'll get to that,
there's a whole section on that.
But that's kind of the ideas that you
can take these disparate program and
you can plug them together to
make bigger programs basically.
Design and build software, even operating
systems, to be tried within weeks,
so that you can ID it early and
iterate and get things right.
And you can get user feedback, which I
appreciate that stuff that I do now.
Yeah, and
use tools in preference to unskilled
help to lighten the programming task.
So if you have a problem,
write a program that solves your problem.
That's kind of the gist of that.
So there's a lot of wisdom here,
there's stuff that I still try to
incorporate in my day to day coding.
So yeah, hope that's interesting to you.
So I kinda wanted to get into
the family tree of Unix and
this looks like a mess
because it's a mess.
[LAUGH] And this is like how people
can never agree on anything, right?
Okay, so you have Unix down here,
this is in the 70s.
And so that was like the base here, right?
That's the Unix like operating system, and
then it branched off in pretty much
in two very strong directions.
One of them was BSD,
which you might have heard of.
Today, you can still use FreeBSD,
which is still around quite a bit.
But the BSD that you're probably
most familiar with would be Mac OS.
Mac OS is a derivative of BSD.
And then you'll see over here
as well that you have the GNU as
I've heard people call it or GNU.
And then from there, we actually got
Linux from a fellow named Linus Torvalds.
And then there's some other directions
that this has gone off as well.
AIX, that's actually my dad used
to work on, believe it or not.
There's Solaris from Sun and Oracle,
HP-UX, there's a bunch of them, right?
But the ones that you're gonna be most
concerned with today are, I mean,
BSD if you're on a Mac, right?
So I'm running a Mac right now.
This is a BSD based operating system and
Linux.
But they're all considered a Unix like,
right?
And I say Unix like because they adhere
to very similar principles and APIs and
all that kind of stuff.
They actually are separate code
bases that work in different ways.
But yeah, that's why they're so
similar, that's why Mac OS and
Linux end up being so similar.
It's because they're
both derived from Unix.